# Background
Training models is resource intensive and out of reach, economically, for most research groups. In contrast, these research groups are the ones who carry most of the domain knowledge. The problem that arises is that those who need the models, are those who have limited computational resources available for producing advanced models trained on vast amounts of data.

By letting researchers construct **tests** that gives models different **scores**, researchers can see which existing foundation models are the most suitable. Furthermore, it gives the ML companies an overview of tests where models underperform which can motivate them to improve models in these areas. 

Then benchmarks can be found here: https://ml-peg.stfc.ac.uk/
# Introduction
The Machine Learning Performance and Extrapolation Guide (**ML-PEG**) gives a summary of different foundation models along with their **scores** in certain **areas**. Some (at the time of writing) examples of areas are 'molecular reactions', 'electric field', and 'thermochemistry', etc.

>Example: The tests are defined under each area, where each test has its own table. Each table/test carries with it its own documentation. For example, in one test under 'molecular crystals', the lattice energy of 13 different ice polymorphs is measured, and the MAE is across this data set is reported for a number of foundation models. All such metrics are then combined into an overall **score**. There are more tests within the 'molecular crystals' area, and each foundation model is assigned a score to each of these tests, which are combined to give each of them a 'molecular crystals' score. The foundation models are then ranked in terms of their scores in each area. 

The scores are presented visually with a table, but each entry is **interactive**. In general, a metric such as the MAE is related to some correlation plot. In the above example, when pressing an entry (an MAE value) the user is presented with a correlation plot with labelled entries. Hovering over a data point reveals the prediction, reference value and the polymorph. By pressing the data point the user is presented with a 3D model of the polymorph, which is also interactive.
# Installation
```sh
python3 -m pip install ml-peg
```
# Methodology
In summary, the interactive test scores require an **app** to make the results interactive. But in order to get results, there must be some **analysis** which---in turn---require **calculations**. 

Thus, the order of operations are `calculation > analysis > app`. Here we go through the steps needed to add a new test and how to run them.

**Start by creating a new branch with a suitable name, clone it and ajust according to the instructions given below.**

## ml_peg/calcs
This section controls the model evaluation. Here, data is downloaded from some source which means it needs to be uploaded somewhere. Ideally *the data should not be sensitive in any way* so only make accessible data from existing publications or data that could have been generated by anyone. **The `ml-peg` suite currently offers functionality do automatically download from a github source. This is what should be used, currently**.
### Setting up calculations
Alter the file `ml_peg/calcs/TEMPLATE_AREA/TEMPLATE_TEST/calc_TEMPLATE_TEST.py` according to your needs. Only change where the comments are. The other parts should only be touched if absoluteley needed.

### Running calculations
Calculations are run using the following terminal commands:
```sh
ml_peg calc --test TEST_NAME
ml_peg calc --test TEST_NAME --models name_of_model
```
where the last command only evaluates using specified models, whose tags can be found in `~/ml_peg/models/models.yml`.
## ml_peg/analysis
Alter the file `ml_peg/analysis/TEMPLATE_AREA/TEMPLATE_TEST/analyse_TEMPLATE_TEST.py` according to your needs. Only change where the comments are. The other parts should only be touched if absoluteley needed.

### Running analyses
Analyses are run using the following terminal command:
```sh
ml_peg analyse --test scaling_pol
```
## ml_peg/app
Alter the file `ml_peg/app/TEMPLATE_AREA/TEMPLATE_TEST/analyse_TEMPLATE_TEST.py` according to your needs. Only change where the comments are. The other parts should only be touched if absoluteley needed.

### Running the app
The app is run using the following terminal command:
```sh
ml_peg ??
```